# CSP

According to the International Energy Agency (IEA) expectations the energy consumption worldwide will grow 70-100% by 2050 representing a global problem in ascendancy of electric consumption and global warming. In Egypt, this ascendancy will be the pulsing heart of several grand challenges of development, from the shortage of non-renewable sources to the effect of climate change as well as dealing with population growth and urban congestion and their consequences. A variety of solutions were already tried targeting these grand challenges reaching alternative renewable energy sources with the best of them included between: Wind power stations, solar Photovoltaic (PV) cells and concentrated solar power stations (CSP). Although wind energy is amazing in its energy production, wind power stations need isolated huge land with highly kinetic wind, so it is not efficiently applicable in Egypt. However, the research showed that solar energy is the best source that Egypt can alternate to; for having the purest atmosphere in its deserts which appears from the Direct Normal irradiance in figure one which shows the least value in Egypt. Although, PV cells are not the best to be used because the PV panels are fragile and can be damaged relatively easily and are not applicable for a city scale. On the other hand, In CSP stations there are parabolic concentration and Solar Power Tower(SPT). In the parabolic concentrations, operating a home will be effective but a huge station with parabolic mirrors will outstandingly increase the cost maintaining a moderate efficiency because they will be only operative only in the daytime. So, there was no more appropriate solution than the CSP stations with a SPT as the fittest electric producing station. This project introduces a new technique for exploiting Egypt's natural resources in the production of energy and solving the grand challenges through the reconstruction of its lands as well as considering reducing the cost maintaining sustainable efficiency. As this station uses sea water to produce electricity, distilled water and salts suitable for different manufacturing processes considering several design requirements in accordance with the following: To achieve the maximum efficiency of the project, we used the molten salt from sea water to store heat and alternate the sun at night. For testing that, two test plans were made one in  he daytime with the solar rays and the second in dark with the molten salt, where in each the output electricity is compared. However, for testing that, the prototype consisted of several tanks that are needed to store the liquids and the heat exchange cycle. To achieve the least cost, two main steps were taken in the prototype: The first is to reduce the number of needed motors and LDR sensors in the station from one for each mirror to one for the whole heliostat, the second was to raise the level of the generator and the tanks of both water and molten salt to benefit from the gravity in transferring the fluids during the operation, needing no more than the first pump that pumps the salt water to the receiver on the top of the SPT. Furthermore, there were high determination in having zero gas emissions in the prototype to ensure the real station being ecofriendly. Finally, a data connection between each terminal is made to compare the output data from each point with the estimated average to determine if there is a problem in any point in the station.
